SMTP Enumeration
We can often gather information
about a host or network
from vulnerable mail servers.
The Simple Mail Transport Protocol
supports several interesting commands,
such as VRFY and EXPN.
A VRFY request asks the server
to verify an email address,
while EXPN asks the server for
the membership of a mailing list.
These can often be abused to verify
existing users on a mail server,
which is useful information
during a penetration test.
Let’s check out the VRFY
command in action
by using netcat to connect
to port 25 on a mail server.
Notice how the success and
error messages differ.
The SMTP server happily
verifies that the user exists.
This procedure can be used to help guess
valid usernames in an automated fashion.
This Python script opens a TCP socket,
connects to the SMTP server,
and issues a VRFY command for
a given username.
Let’s make this script executable
and try it out.
Great, our script is working perfectly.